Add: ai-comic-factory forking tutorial (#1541)
huggingface/blog: ai-comic-factory.md

In this tutorial, we'll show you how to fork and configure the AI Comic Factory to avoid long wait times and deploy it to your own private space using the Inference API. It does not require strong technical skills, but some knowledge of APIs, environment variables and a general understanding of LLMs & Stable Diffusion are recommended.

## Getting started

First, ensure that you sign up for a PRO Hugging Face account, as this will grant you access to the Llama-2 and SDXL models.

## How the AI Comic Factory is made

The AI Comic Factory is a bit different from other Spaces running on Hugging Face: it is a NextJS application, deployed using Docker, and is based on a client-server approach, requiring two APIs to work:

- a Language Model API (Currently [Llama-2](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/llama2))
- a Stable Diffusion API (currently [SDXL 1.0](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_xl))

## Duplicating the Space

> To duplicate the AI Comic Factory, go to the Space and click on "Duplicate":

Author: Nice trick 😃

Your copy of the Space will run inside a Docker container that doesn't require many resources, so you can use the smallest instance. The official AI Comic Factory Space utilizes a bigger CPU instance, as it caters to a large user base.

To operate the AI Comic Factory under your account, you need to configure your Hugging Face token:

![duplicate-space-2.jpg](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/165_ai_comic_factory/duplicate-space-2.jpg)

## Selecting the LLM and SD engines

The AI Comic Factory supports various backend engines, which can be configured using two environment variables:
 - `LLM_ENGINE` to configure the language model (possible values are `INFERENCE_API`, `INFERENCE_ENDPOINT`, `OPENAI`)
 - `RENDERING_ENGINE` to configure the image generation engine (possible values are `INFERENCE_API`, `INFERENCE_ENDPOINT`, `REPLICATE`, `VIDEOCHAIN`).

We'll focus on making the AI Comic Factory work on the Inference API, so they both need to be set to `INFERENCE_API`:

![duplicate-space-3.jpg](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/165_ai_comic_factory/duplicate-space-3.jpg)

> You can find more information about alternative engines and vendors in the project's (README)[https://huggingface.co/spaces/jbilcke-hf/ai-comic-factory/blob/main/README.md] and the [.env](https://huggingface.co/spaces/jbilcke-hf/ai-comic-factory/blob/main/README.md) config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find more information about alternative engines and vendors in the project's [README](https://huggingface.co/spaces/jbilcke-hf/ai-comic-factory/blob/main/README.md) and the [.env](https://huggingface.co/spaces/jbilcke-hf/ai-comic-factory/blob/main/README.md) config file.
```

## Configuring the models

The AI Comic Factory comes with the following models pre-configured:
- `LLM_HF_INFERENCE_API_MODEL`: default value is `meta-llama/Llama-2-70b-chat-hf`
- `RENDERING_HF_RENDERING_INFERENCE_API_MODEL`: default value is `stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0`

Your PRO Hugging Face account already gives you access to those models, so you don't have anything to do or change.

> # Going further

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Going further
```

---
title: "Deploying the AI Comic Factory using the Inference API"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/165_ai_comic_factory/thumbnail.jpg
authors:
- user: jbilcke-hf
---

# Deploying the AI Comic Factory using the Inference API

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

> # Introduction

Reviewer 2: I'd maybe skip this section header.

We recently announced [Inference for PROs](https://huggingface.co/blog/inference-pro), our new offering that makes larger models accessible to a broader audience. This opportunity opens up new possibilities for running end-user applications using Hugging Face as a platform.

An example of such an application is the [AI Comic Factory](https://huggingface.co/spaces/jbilcke-hf/ai-comic-factory) - a Space that has proved incredibly popular. Thousands of users have tried it to create their own AI comic panels, fostering its own community of regular users. They share their creations, with some even opening pull requests.

> In this tutorial, we'll show you how to fork and configure the AI Comic Factory to avoid long wait times and deploy it to your own private space using the Inference API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we'll show you how to fork and configure the AI Comic Factory to avoid long wait times and deploy it to your own private space using the Inference API. It does not require strong technical skills, but some knowledge of APIs, environment variables and a general understanding of LLMs & Stable Diffusion are recommended.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest maybe move the disclaimer here and make it slightly more encouraging :)

> # Getting started

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Getting started
```

These should all be second-level headers.

> Some knowledge of APIs, large language models (LLM), Stable Diffusion, and environment variables is strongly recommended.

Reviewer 2: Addressed above, if you think it makes sense.

```suggestion
```

> Firstly, ensure that you sign up for a PRO Hugging Face account, as this will grant you access to the Llama-2 and SDXL models.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, ensure that you sign up for a PRO Hugging Face account, as this will grant you access to the Llama-2 and SDXL models.
```

> # How the AI Comic Factory is made

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How the AI Comic Factory is made
```

The AI Comic Factory is a bit different from other Spaces running on Hugging Face: it is a NextJS application, deployed using Docker, and is based on a client-server approach, requiring two APIs to work:

- a Language Model API (Currently [Llama-2](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/llama2))
- a Stable Diffusion API (currently [SDXL 1.0](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/api/pipelines/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_xl))

> # Duplicating the Space

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Duplicating the Space
```

To duplicate the AI Comic Factory, go to the Space and click on "Duplicate":

![duplicate-space-1.jpg](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/165_ai_comic_factory/duplicate-space-1.jpg)

You'll observe that the Space owner, name, and visibility are already filled in for you, so you can leave those values as is.

> This Space runs inside a Docker container that doesn't require many resources, so you can use the smallest instance. The official AI Comic Factory Space utilizes a bigger CPU instance, as it caters to a large user base.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your copy of the Space will run inside a Docker container that doesn't require many resources, so you can use the smallest instance. The official AI Comic Factory Space utilizes a bigger CPU instance, as it caters to a large user base.
```

To operate the AI Comic Factory under your account, you need to configure your Hugging Face token:

![duplicate-space-2.jpg](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/165_ai_comic_factory/duplicate-space-2.jpg)

> # Selecting the LLM and SD engines

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Selecting the LLM and SD engines
```

The AI Comic Factory supports various backend engines, which can be configured using two environment variables:

>  - `LLM_ENGINE` to configure the language model (possible values are `INFERENCE_API`, `INFERENCE_ENDOINT`, `OPENAI`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - `LLM_ENGINE` to configure the language model (possible values are `INFERENCE_API`, `INFERENCE_ENDPOINT`, `OPENAI`)
```

Author: ouch well spotted!

 - `RENDERING_ENGINE` to configure the image generation engine (possible values are `INFERENCE_API`, `INFERENCE_ENDPOINT`, `REPLICATE`, `VIDEOCHAIN`).

> In the scope of this tutorial, we will only focus on making the AI Comic Factory work on the Inference API, so those need to be set to `INFERENCE_API`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We'll focus on making the AI Comic Factory work on the Inference API, so they both need to be set to `INFERENCE_API`:
```

![duplicate-space-3.jpg](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/165_ai_comic_factory/duplicate-space-3.jpg)

You can find more information about alternative engines and vendors in the project's (README)[https://huggingface.co/spaces/jbilcke-hf/ai-comic-factory/blob/main/README.md] and the [.env](https://huggingface.co/spaces/jbilcke-hf/ai-comic-factory/blob/main/README.md) config file.

> # Configuring the models

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configuring the models
```
